Title: FPM: Effing Package Management
Subtitle: FlatStack Demo #10
Author: Timur Batyrshin
Copyright:
Duration: 15

h1{text-align:center}. FPM: Effing Package Management

h2{text-align:center}. FlatStack Demo #10

h2{text-align:center}. Timur Batyrshin

p{text-align:center}. (Loosely based on docs/examples for FPM)

h1. Installing stuff on the box

Suppose you need some mega-service installed on the box.
<% code do %>
wget http://some.url.to/mega-service-7.77.tgz
tar -xf mega-service-7.77.tgz
cd mega-service-7.77
./configure
make
sudo make install
<% end %>

h1. Installing stuff on the box

In fact you often run into something like this:
<% code do %>
wget http://some.url.to/mega-service-7.77.tgz
#      ouch! 7.78 is out and 7.77 is no longer available
wget http://some.url.to/mega-service-7.78.tgz
tar -xf mega-service-7.78.tgz
cd mega-service-7.78
./configure
#      ouch! some dependencies were not installed
apt-get install some deps
./configure
make
sudo make install
<% end %>

h1. Some months later
<% code do %>
$ mega-service
Some weird error happened. Missing file 'erase.me'
$ dpkg-query -l | grep mega
$ which mega-service
/usr/local/bin
$ ls -l /usr/local/mega-service
No such file or directory
<% end %>
* What is the version of the software?
* Where is it installed?
* Is everything in place?
* How do I uninstall it?

h1. Using FPM: Building the software

Build it on your desktop as usual:
<% code do %>
# Normal build steps.
wget http://nodejs.org/dist/v0.6.0/node-v0.6.0.tar.gz
tar -zxf node-v0.6.0.tar.gz
cd node-v0.6.0
./configure --prefix=/usr
make
<% end %>

and install to a separate directory for capture.
<% code do %>
mkdir /tmp/installdir
make install DESTDIR=/tmp/installdir
<% end %>

h1. Using FPM: Building the package

Create a nodejs deb with only bin and lib directories:
<% code do %>
# The 'VERSION' and 'ARCH' strings are automatically filled in for you
# based on the other arguments given.

fpm -s dir -t deb -n nodejs -v 0.6.0 -C /tmp/installdir \
  -p nodejs-VERSION_ARCH.deb \
  -d "libssl0.9.8 (> 0)" \
  -d "libstdc++6 (>= 4.4.3)" \
  usr/bin usr/lib
<% end %>

h1. Using FPM: Building docs and dev package

Package up the manpages (create nodejs-doc)
<% code do %>
fpm -s dir -t deb -p nodejs-doc-VERSION_ARCH.deb -n nodejs-doc \
  -v 0.6.0 -C /tmp/installdir usr/share/man
<% end %>

Now create the -dev package
<% code do %>
fpm -s dir -t deb -p nodejs-dev-VERSION_ARCH.deb -n nodejs-dev \
  -v 0.6.0 -C /tmp/installdir usr/include
<% end %>

h1. Using FPM: Testing the package

Let's test the package out:
<% code do %>
$ file nodejs-0.6.0-1_amd64.deb
nodejs-0.6.0-1_amd64.deb: Debian binary package (format 2.0)
$ sudo dpkg -i nodejs-0.6.0-1_amd64.deb 
$ /usr/bin/node --version
v0.6.0
<% end %>

h1. Packaging simple files

We can package a single file or a dir easily:
<% code do %>
fpm -s dir -t deb -n jenkins -v 1.396 --prefix /opt/jenkins jenkins.war
<% end %>

h1. Packaging gems

Suppose we need cucumber packaged:
<% code do %>
$ mkdir /tmp/gems
$ gem install --no-ri --no-rdoc --install-dir /tmp/gems cucumber
Successfully installed json-1.6.5
Successfully installed gherkin-2.9.1
Successfully installed term-ansicolor-1.0.7
Successfully installed builder-3.0.0
Successfully installed diff-lcs-1.1.3
Successfully installed cucumber-1.1.9
6 gems installed
$ for x in $(ls /tmp/gems/cache/*.gem); do
for> fpm -s gem -t deb $x
for> done
Created /tmp/gems/rubygem-json-1.66.-1.amd64.deb
Created /tmp/gems/rubygem-builder-3.0.0-1.amd64.deb
Created /tmp/gems/rubygem-gherkin-2.9.1-1.amd64.deb
Created /tmp/gems/rubygem-diff-lcs-1.1.3-1.amd64.deb
Created /tmp/gems/rubygem-term-ansicolor-1.0.7-1.amd64.deb
Created /tmp/gems/rubygem-cucumber-1.1.9-1.amd64.deb
<% end %>

h1. Packaging gems: checking the package

Browse the info:
<% code do %>
$ dpkg --info ./rubygem-cucumber_1.1.9-1_all.deb                                                                            
 new debian package, version 2.0.
 size 667736 bytes: control archive= 498 bytes.
       0 bytes,     0 lines      conffiles            
     561 bytes,    14 lines      control              
 Package: rubygem-cucumber
 Version: 1:1.1.9-1
 License: no license listed in cucumber-1.1.9.gem
 Vendor: Aslak Hellesøy
 Architecture: all
 Maintainer: <timurb@admin2>
 Installed-Size: 1902
 Depends: rubygem-gherkin (>= 2.9.0), rubygem-gherkin (<< 2.10.0), 
   rubygem-term-ansicolor (>= 1.0.6), rubygem-builder (>= 2.1.2), 
   rubygem-diff-lcs (>= 1.1.2), rubygem-json (>= 1.4.6)
 #Pre-Depends: 
 Provides: rubygem-rubygem-cucumber
 Section: Languages/Development/Ruby
 Priority: extra
 Homepage: http://cukes.info
 Description: Behaviour Driven Development with elegance and joy
<% end %>

h1. Packaging gems: watch out for RVM!

RVM should be disabled on the box or you'll get:
<% code do %>
$ dpkg -c rubygem-cucumber_1.1.9-1_all.deb | head                                                                           
drwx------ timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/rvm/
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/rvm/gems/
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2011.03/
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2011.03/cache/
-rw-rw-r-- timurb/users 332288 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2011.03/cache/cucumber-1.1.9.gem
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2011.03/gems/
drwxrwxr-x timurb/users      0 2012-03-20 15:31 ./usr/local/rvm/gems/ree-1.8.7-2011.03/gems/cucumber-1.1.9/
<% end %>

h1. Other features:

<% left do %>
h2. Sources:
* dirs/files
* rpm
* gem
* python
* npm
* pear
<% end %>
<% right do %>
h2. Targets:
* rpm
* deb
* solaris
* puppet
<% end %>

+ All package-manager provided stuff (depends,provides,pre/post-install scripts etc.)

!SLIDE

h2{text-align:center}. Questions?
